next up is health theory with yemeni
mesa and myself yemeni mesa is one of
the executives back at quest nutrition
he has since left quest and is now the
president of no better foods yemeni mesa
Wow does up dude good to see you oh look
look I'm guessing this is gonna be our
giveaway guys sunny it's gonna be the
you know no better foods not sure which
camera we're at here this is exciting
dude I'm super stoked on your brand
really excited about what you're doing
and first though let's give people a
little bit of context about who you are
beyond just being the president and the
former chief sales officer at quest
nutrition right tell us about a young
boy moving here from Columbia we're
gonna go that far back we'll go quickly
sure to present-day
so yes I'm originally from South America
Colombia lived there till I was 10 and
there's a whole crazy fun story behind
how I got probably safe for another day
yes ya got here when I was 10 and have
been here ever since
somewhere along the way I've been kind
of really into fitness and nutrition I
guess from the very GetGo from the time
I was a little kid and so everything
that I've done and someone should
perform has been tied to fitness
nutrition what got you into fitness and
nutrition by the way I the earliest
memory I have of wanting anything to do
with fitness and nutrition was of me as
a little kid drawing muscles on my body
with markers so I think it was like five
or six that's awesome and already
literally physically right onto your
body I would draw pecs and abs and flex
in the mirror because I had no muscles
and years later as a teenager I remember
walking on the beach once and seen this
very cute girl on the boardwalk and as I
was walking toward her she she and I
made eye contact and I'm like a super
shy person I would never like make the
first move on in a situation like that
but in this case she was kind of looking
at me and I and I as I passed by she
made a comment she said too scrawny Oh
so from that day forth I said I'm never
gonna be too scrawny so I went on this
mission to you know add muscle and get
muscular and eventually got into
competitive bodybuilding as in my early
20s and God we weren't I wasn't smart
enough to have that photo ready was I by
any chance heartbreaking you
bodybuilding is unbelievable dude you
were shredded yes read it in fact they
can just drop your name into Google
right and get an image probably yeah all
right you got it
amazing yemeni mesa everybody ya know
like way down on my IG account annual in
fact what is your IG account at quito
underscore head so it's quito underscore
head and so that's a giveaway to the
ketogenic diet which is right i happen
to be very fond of yes as we all learned
a quest what an amazing impact getting
into ketosis can have so to this day now
I'm not all that interested in like the
big muscles and and all that anymore I'm
45 does the guy with possibly the best
arms I've ever seen in my life this is
like the remnants of the bodybuilding
days but today it's really more about
longevity and feeling it being able to
perform I'm the president of a company I
travel a lot and whatever I can do to
keep me at you know optimal performance
that's kind of where I'm focusing today
and what I eat has a huge impact on that
and so part of what I'm always trying to
do in life and something that I learned
in a great deal working with you at
Quest is to make sure that we're always
really pursuing that which we have the
most passion for and so I happen to have
a ton of passion for food so it would
make sense that I would work with a
company that is a food based company
right and even more so that it's a
company that's striving to bring foods
to market that taste like all the carby
things that you and I love to eat oh
yeah but in fact behave the way like the
foods that were supposed to be eating
behave so that's what I'm doing
let's get a little bit nerdy on this
segment so what is it about the
ketogenic diet that draws you I think
when most people look at your physique
they would think dude this guy must be
just like crazy protein heavy
I was certainly where I lived for a lot
of years and I remember it quest when we
first started when I think it was Dom
D'Agostino and Peter Atia came into the
office I was gone
and when I come came back everybody was
like dude we're like it's really changed
that's all about fatness yeah I was like
I've been avoiding fat for literally
years yeah and when I so I used to be 60
pounds heavier as you well know maybe
the audience doesn't I see 60 pounds
heavier and getting lean I went through
essentially rabbit starvation there
about two years so rabbit starvation is
you're eating a ton of protein but it's
so low in fat that you actually get in
danger of starving to death which this
is like a recurring theme in my life was
a little bit stupid I was so stoked on
how much fat that I was losing that I
was not noticing that I was losing
muscle mass that I had all these joints
aches and pains and but I was just so
phobic of fat because of the number of
calories that it has per gram so I
avoided it like the plague and then they
come in and they say hey it's all about
fat anti-inflammation potential
anti-cancer properties and so then we
went hardcore in fat but why what is it
about a ketogenic diet that you think so
impactful well so for me I I'm not on a
ketogenic diet ongoing so I get in and
out of ketosis and I like to get into
ketosis for maybe four weeks at a time a
few times a year for health benefits
cancer prevention anti inflammatory and
why why does it have cancer possibly
right I don't want to overstate anything
but sure the reason we were getting
excited about it at Quest and we were
spending a lot of money into research
was to answer whether this is true or
not but what's the hypothesis yeah so
it's quite fascinating we we are able to
burn two types of fuel in our body we
can either burn carbohydrates as glucose
which is what most people are typically
running on or we can burn fat in the
form of ketones and as it turns out some
cancer cells are not able to burn both
so if we can starve them of the field
that they can't burn we are able to
potentially slow down cancer or prevent
cancer so by going into ketogenic diet
where primary
burning fat for fuel we're starving
potentially cancer cells or precancerous
cells from from developing so that's one
of many you know if you think about the
number of people today who are diabetic
or pre-diabetic their main challenge is
how to properly manage carbohydrates and
for whatever reason they're not
producing enough insulin or insulin to
long or working for them and so anytime
they consume carbohydrates they're gonna
have problems and so how can we find a
way to get people to consume less
carbohydrates you know we're just we're
wired to really enjoy them they taste
really good they're that the truth part
of our culture we celebrate all kinds of
holidays with them so just giving up
carbs is almost impossible even for the
most disciplined people so therein lies
you know the potential solution to
create foods that taste like carbs but
are actually made of protein is that so
there's no better have a stated mission
we do and that is we want to replace
bread so we're focusing on that
particular category so if you and I
talked a lot about this at least you
know there's a number of food categories
out there that are you know that create
a constituted majority the calories that
we're consuming as a population and most
of these food categories are comprised
of grain based car based foods which are
at the root of many of the health
conditions that were that we're facing
today so identifying these food
categories whether it's pizza or cereal
or ice cream or candy bars
bringing foods to market that taste as
good as their junk food counterparts but
actually behave like the types of foods
that we should be eating in other words
maintaining metabolic integrity has like
to refer to it that's our mission and
we're focusing squarely on the bread
category so as of today we have
something like 20 different bread based
products Jesus that that you could you
know start consuming right away stuff
like croutons waffles like all kinds of
things so if you're already for example
you know on a paleo diet or on a
ketogenic diet or low carb diet whatever
the case may be you're already gonna be
eating a burger like what we're used to
eating over here which you know a burger
with no bun so we have a bun that you
cannot put on your bird
that's brain free gluten-free and has
like two net carbs so that's where they
can now have a bun in your burger again
it's so interesting it's a mixed bag I
was so mortified when he left quest
because you were such a key part of the
team there obviously I'm super excited
for you
moving into the president ROM I mean
that's such a big deal
but I want people to know like you were
the one at Quest that was like you know
what we're really doing we're
identifying categories and we're gonna
go into those categories and get people
in trouble and we're going to make a
version that people want to eat so I was
over here talking we're gonna end
metabolic disease it was like very high
level and you made it so tactical and I
really loved that so it makes so much
sense to me that you've gone because the
Holy Grail spread right right so who
ever like can replace bread is is just
gonna have a massive hit on their hands
so yeah I love that I love that this
really is an an echo of an idea that
you've had for years and it's a really
interesting time right now because what
quest started which is this whole notion
if you can actually bring something to
market that'll rival its junk food
counterpart my quest has done that in a
really awesome way with cereal bars with
candy bars protein bars but there's so
many other companies out there today who
have looked at that and said oh if they
can do it we can do it over in this
space and so there's people tackling ice
cream and doing a really good job just
people tackling pizza and doing a really
good job but as you mentioned bread is
that Holy Grail and so I do look forward
to there working on you know butter
toast with my dinner and actually have
it promote good metabolism versus
metabolic disaster yeah you know me both
all right we have a question and if we
could the red light would be amazing
when we have questions they turn it on
now
so we have a question from Cory girona
who is by the way always contributing to
these fees I'm forever grateful Cory
thank you in the keto diet do you find
it large margin between affordability as
opposed to what we will call norm or
standard generic or common foods so
basically is the ketogenic diet more
expensive
I suppose it kind of is right because
when you think about your primarily
eating proteins and fats and you're
avoiding carbohydrates so carbs are
super cheap maybe because they're high
subsidized and some shouldn't be but
yeah typically speaking you're gonna
spend more money and proteins and fats
but you can do a ketogenic diet very
inexpensively it doesn't have to be you
know over-the-top expensive yeah I'll
agree with that so depending on so one
of the things that's important in a
ketogenic diet is your ratio so for
every combined gram of protein and
carbohydrate you eat how many grams of
fat so if you wanted a two-to-one ratio
for every combined gram a protein
carbohydrate you eat you eat two grams
of fat that's pretty plausible and I'll
say that you can accidentally probably
get around a 1.5 or a 1.7 and I'll give
you an example if you're going and
eating burgers with bacon and a high-fat
cheese you can do pretty well especially
if it's like a 70/30 ground beef so
there are ways like if I needed to be at
a minimum keto friendly so really high
fat ultra low carb and even lowish
protein you can do that at McDonald's
right just don't eat the bun no sauce
that's where a lot of people make a
mistake is they think oh but if only I
didn't have the bun but I had ketchup
and I had relish and you know things
that have just a gaggle of sugar in them
right
but yeah so you're right it can be
managed pretty well from a cost
perspective yep yep all right I think
we're gonna give away one of those right
there we're giving away the whole basket
I'm not mistaken right yeah the whole
basket I'm being so do the question or
something that goes along with them um
well we have another fan question Oh to
win to win it do we already ask the
question can't remember
that's that red light for you we got
that fan question so we haven't asked it
yet but just to give you guys a sense
I'm gonna read off some of the things
we're giving away
we've got no better crumbs which I'm
fascinated by what do you do with no
better crumbs you cook of course you can
see my chicken yeah levar beast yeah we
have no better croutons no better pasta
so pastas a really cool thing this is an
interesting product we have one
ingredient in this pasta they're made
out of chickpeas and so when compared to
normal pasta so this is essentially
hummus pasta yeah that's dope hummus is
buggin delicious
hi of this camera my wife is manning the
camera so that's that's one that's
another show them the waffles I think
that's probably my personal favorite
next to the consoles right whoo
those that are waffles check those out
so when I talk about like having
something that rivals this junk food
counterpart this is about as close as
we've gotten with anything on the
product line that you can eat one of
these and smother I'm in the zero sugar
syrup and grass-fed butter and oh god
it's a delicious breakfast and that
won't knock me out of ketosis I've
tested that one personally it will or
won't will not really no Wow so for
those wondering and we'll get to the the
question ketosis has a definition which
is 0.5 million moles of ketones present
in the bloodstream so it's it's not a
faith-based diet it's yes or no you
either do have that amount of ketones
president in your blood or you don't so
when somebody says they kick you out of
ketosis means it takes you from point
five or higher to 0.4 or less and so
learning where your threshold is is
really really important one cool thing
to point out on this too because some
people might be confused if you were to
look at the nutritional labels you would
see on the sugar panel 10 12 15 grams of
sugar so if you happen to be on a
ketogenic diet you wouldn't want that
much sugar all right and any one meal as
it turns out we have a very rare unique
type of sugar in this product called a
Lilo's which is rare sugar found in
nature but it it's not like normal sugar
for two reasons one it's got a fraction
of the calories that normal sugar does
and it has almost zero glycemic index or
glycemic response compared to sugar
which has a very high glycemic response
yeah and not to over self-promote but
that's the same ingredient that we're
using in the quest hero bars very
exciting amazing I think it's gonna have
a huge impact on the industry as a whole
all right
Celeste badass Tony is it healthy to go
on ketogenic diet if one is diabetic so
we'll answer that question but first and
foremost I'm going to say consult these
doctors so any doctor we are not medical
professionals but we'll both give you
our very aggressive answers but saying
once again
yes check with your doctor first and
either one of us or doctors but yes if
you're diabetic for sure I think you
would benefit from it tremendously it'll
help you to stabilize your blood sugar
levels throughout the day so if you're
diabetic today you're probably having to
use you know X amount of insulin we've
had tons of letters coming in from
people who are diabetic who are using
our products and are now either off
insulin or using a lot less insulin and
then we're using before so check with
your doctor but yeah this would be a
really cool idea for you ketogenic diet
just manage blood sugar yeah check with
your doctor and get to the point where
if your doctor doesn't know about
ketogenic s-- find a doctor who does I'm
gonna prognosticate as somebody who is
very much not a doctor but I'm gonna say
looking into the future of medicine
especially the functional medicine
medical movement that this is gonna be a
huge deal and it'll basically be the
front line of defense for people with
diabetes I just think that it it is
without question and I've actually met
medical doctors who their response to
learning about ketogenic was to launch
an entire metabolic clinic because
they're like this is the answer now
again that's my interpretation of what
they're doing they may totally disagree
with that please please please find a
doctor that can guide you through this
process because you will be dropping
your blood sugar precipitously so if
you're taking insulin and doing this
without consulting you can get yourself
into trouble so definitely work with
your doctor I think this is huge and if
it were my mother that were diabetic I
would literally drag her by the hair if
I had to to a doctor that understands
ketogenic to immediately get her I'd
probably be trying to get her north of
one millimoles present in the blood
stream of ketones I just think that
that's the no-brainer response to this
all right another fan question this one
from Joe cross also a very active member
in the community when you're talking
about replacing grains with other
ingredients what are the best
replacement ingredients you found yeah
so for us it's been a combination of
different ingredients to try and achieve
that flower life texture that you would
go with normal grain-based flowers but
almond flour coconut flours and the
combination of those two with other
ingredients like a goulos have allowed
us to to achieve those types of green
like textures without having any grains
mmm yeah and look I've tried enough of
these to know they're amazing so when
you get to the point where you're
constantly reducing your diet removing
removing removing this I think is is
what I'm so excited to have been a part
of that quest is to introduce what you
were talking about which is the junk
food counterparts because the healthier
you eat the more you have to flip a
switch in your brain to be stoked that
you're doing things for longevity that
you definitely feel better there's no
question but it the meals in and of
themselves usually aren't as much fun
yep so adding things back that are
pleasurable and this is something we
talked a lot about we were both a quest
you can't ask the vast majority of
people to give up to sacrifice to work
out more to exercise more to eat less
right it just is not a winning thing it
doesn't tap into the the human condition
so seeing more companies like what
you're doing it no better foods really
embrace like we want this [__] to be fun
is a big deal
we're so wired just to eat that way Rob
Wolfe has a great book on wire to eat if
you guys get a chance to read throughout
me I haven't read that oh he goes so
deep into it I mean we're wired to do a
lot more than just want to eat carbs
we're wired to just want to sit
sedentary so it's a double whammy for
you know the way that we live today is
sitting at our couch or desks at work
and wanting to eat the things that we're
just not supposed to eat all the time so
one hack around that is finding a way to
bring these foods to market that you
know the vast majority the population
like you said it's not gonna eat less
exercise more just because I'm not wired
to do that right so yes alright so we
have another fan question here from
Elaine to guess and I love by the way as
soon as we start talking health diet we
get so many questions when I went keto
my anxiety levels dropped greatly but I
never understood why any thoughts well
there's so many things happening
cognitively when you're in ketosis so I
don't know for certain but I would
theorize that more feel to your brain
better hormonal response who knows I'm
gonna give you a definitive answer you
ready for this yes so right now I am so
obsessed
with what's going on in the functional
medicine movement yeah functional health
is the word that I'm looking for talking
about the connection between the gut and
the brain and the way I promise that
what she went to from what she was at
before she went to a ketogenic diet was
something that was causing massive
disruption in her microbiome and when
you understand that 95 percent of the
serotonin stored in your body not
necessarily critics I think it I think
your your enteric system only creates
like 60 percent or something like that
but it stores 95 percent so when you
disrupt something in the microbiome and
serotonin is like the feel-good
neurochemical so when you disrupt that
system by essentially inflaming your gut
killing off the the right microbes the
ones that you want that are really gonna
help elevate your mood you really really
get into a problem also one of the most
profound things that a ketogenic diet
does and this I don't know the
mechanisms why look up Dom D'Agostino we
can give it to you all it's
anti-inflammatory now so many things in
the brain respond to inflammation
negatively so take the deep limbic
system when you inflame just just
inflaming the deep limbic system makes
you perceive the world negatively now
the deep limbic systems job is to take
things so let's say that things are all
inherently neutral take those things and
paint over it with emotion which
actually allows you to make decisions
emotions incredibly important for
decision-making but when you're
perceiving everything is negative that
ceases to be very useful so I'm guessing
that just in reducing inflammation as
well as all of the neuro chemicals for
feeling good and all that that are
created by the microbiome you put those
together and it's been implicated in
anxiety and depression I'm just having
just a major major role so it makes all
the sense in the world where we're
creating a in not normal condition when
we eat the way that we eat today and
that normal condition is creating
complications health complications that
were living with today so it makes sense
that if we go back to eating the way
that we were meant to be eating or the
way that we have eaten for the majority
of our
a time on this planet that things start
to work normal again so that makes a lot
of sense yeah I want to ask what are
some of the things you guys are
struggling with making this kind of food
as hard as hell I know firsthand so like
what are you guys doing and oh you've
put together a phenomenal team behind
the scenes and in fact I'll ask a
different question knowing the
challenges that you face what do you
look for in a team a lot of great
questions so I think we did a lot of
really good things a quest and I learned
a lot from there that I'm applying today
for sure
so one of those things is is did we
click right out of the bat and like
right out the gate delay over test yeah
so that for sure one of the things that
I did though with this team is I started
the whole thing with a core group of
people that I've worked with for 20
years now believe it or not and so
there's two key people on the team we've
known each other for that long we've
worked on various different teams
together including quest and that allows
us to kind of hit the ground running
right out of the game which is really
cool but in terms of building a team and
growing from there really looking for
people who passively over tests like we
had talked about is this somebody that
if we could stuck at the airport am I
going to be thinking to myself because
you often will by the way especially
with the amount that you travel or am I
thinking oh it's office is gonna be like
a wonderfully fascinating conversation
and I'm stuck to be with this person so
bringing those kind of people into the
team super important
bringing people who on board who have a
growth mindset you know it's starting to
sound a little cliche because everyone's
saying that now but so it's so true and
specifically or what I mean by that is
people who understand that there is so
much more growth to be had than whatever
gripe forms performance we happen to be
experiencing at the moment like right
now things are great the brand's small
but growing very very quickly but the
vision is so much grander than what
we're seeing right now and so bringing
people on board to see that and who buy
into that super important and then
people who are passionate about what
they actually do that's it just goes
without saying
really truly love it they don't nobody's
asking him to do anything they're just
doing it on their own I am the opposite
of a micromanager I'm the type of you
know a person that or manager or leader
or whatever the word is that likes to
provide direction and then kind of let
the person do what they do that's why
you know they've brought on been brought
on the team they're experts at what they
do and you did a great job with doing
that a quest and including all kinds of
great autonomy so I'm continuing
continuing that forward and in this new
venture that's awesome I'm super excited
all right we have another fan question
here is from Bert ver Merce vertibirds
vermeer SHhhh I'm gonna go with that all
right as a Belgian and a fan of
everything low-carb is there a way to
get the no better foods waffles all the
way over here that's a great question
cuz these have to be frozen right these
you have to be frozen but by the way
ours are belgian-style waffles so now
you you owe it to him we do take it peas
over you asked me one of what one of the
challenges right now is and Bert's
question reminded me of one of those we
have a lot of really great formulations
done getting them to be produced at
scale it's a whole whole new challenge
and so I know that we knew that we need
that challenge while at Quest it
required
you know required us to create new
equipment and custom make things and so
finding ourselves in a very similar
situation with some of these products
the waffle being one of them so waffle
is something that I was planning on
launching in a very big way this year
because of the capacity constraints that
we have it'll be a big push for next
year and one of our producers might may
actually be in Europe and so really if
that happens Brittany actually gets them
all there we go
that's exciting yeah and look you know
one of the there are all kinds of
realities to be faced of what I'm about
to say obviously take with a grain of
salt but knowing what a big movement
this is gonna be to be thinking now
about having overseas production which
is something that haunted me when I was
a quest you know how do you do that like
how do you step up for that like it's
such a big undertaking but if you're
gonna leverage outsourcing it like
teaming up now could be really really
advantageous especially I mean this
comes under your formulations in fact
one of my questions for you is going to
be
how do you push through boredom so this
was something that drove me nuts a quest
I found so boring international
regulations right what's different in
this country and this kind of [__]
hell right so how do you like how do you
stay motivated what keeps you excited
enough to push through that stuff
well we're right now at that stage of
growth where it's like startup stage and
so every day is exciting and there's
never a dull second of the day I haven't
even gotten to the point where I'm
having to deal with the international
regulation nonsense which I also can't
stand it's coming for you I know but my
answer to that question is I will bring
people on the team that love doing that
kind of [__] I don't so there's people
who love to dive into that red hair
world and make sense of it right now
alley loss is limited in where we can
sell it so for that main reasons trip
we're very much focused on us
but yeah find the right people who love
doing that stuff wisdom alright guys we
have our giveaway question now this is
for this entire basket of no better
foods which are amazing speaking from
firsthand experience and that's somebody
that has a competitive company and I
would just tell you that we can't make
all the food in the world so having
other people like no better foods that
have a real mission that have integrity
from an ingredient standpoint I'm super
stoked to be offering this giveaway and
it is the question is what does M C T
stand for m CT drop that answer into the
comments I'll be very impressed I'm
really curious to see who knows this and
by the way if you have to look it up you
can still win no problem but if you know
the answer and didn't have to look it up
identify yourself as I'm very curious
because that that's a very specific
thing to know so I'm super curious to
know who's out there all right it's time
for lunch it's time for lunch like
Yemeni and I are gonna walk you through
what we eat time for lunch or time for
lunch we're going to a card okay perfect
alright so let's get a camera on this
stuff so nice amazing how did you guys
know this is what I have every day so if
you guys were to go on my Instagram
account right now you would see I
typically post what I eat throughout the
day and did
we how did we know there's lots of
Burger pictures there I think a little
burn I would say like because the fact
that he has the avocado or the guacamole
that's that's the impressive part okay
so I'm gonna call [__] on mine
there's is this a double king I think
I'm being had so I eat different things
based on what I'm doing whether I'm high
protein or high carb Wow high carb
I wish high protein or high fat cat is
like my subconscious so wants to be high
garbage
I don't do carbs even on the weekends I
can't ID ballooned up like a tick so
just like Yemeni goes in and out of
ketosis I go in and out of ketosis so
normally today would be a high protein
day for me because normally I would have
worked out because it's the weekend
because we're doing the 24-hour live I
didn't work out today excited a lot of
prep work to do so I'm gonna be sort of
hedging my bets so you're gonna see me
eating a little bit higher protein or
sorry a little bit lower protein than I
would eat on a keto day and a little bit
higher protein than I would normally eat
on a keto day so I'm splitting my
difference a little bit what I do on if
it's a true keto day this would be what
I would eat plus and literally it would
be cut your burger in half with the
guacamole and some vegetables that would
be my meal you me how do you decide when
to eat what so the Pens a lot on what I
happen to be doing at the time if I'm on
a ketogenic diet my lunch would not look
like this right now I am on a low-carb
high-fat diet so I'm keeping my carbs
under 25 grams per day net carbs I mean
talk about the difference about them in
a second and then I keep my fat pretty
high and I'm not minding my protein
meaning I'm eating as much protein as I
want to because right now I'm my goal is
to gain muscle and strength in the gym
happen to be doing that right now now
are you specifically in a mass gain
cycle no but strength gaining cycle I'm
not trying to necessarily add more
muscle or get bigger but just performing
better in the gym strength
and you need the protein to pull that
off definitely the protein the one thing
I learned I did keto for almost an
entire year
two years ago and the one thing I did
learn over the course of that time it
happened very very gradually but I
started to lose muscle very gradually
just as my protein was that low and I
was still training the way that I
normally would train so the really cool
thing is that there's a really cool
rebound from that so when you spike your
protein after having been so low you
still don't have a really good rebound
then put on muscle very quickly so you
regain it pretty quickly but for body
composition keto is not my preferred way
to eat for health purposes for sure for
body composition in the long term low
carb high fat works best for me it
allows me to keep my blood glucose level
stable throughout the day I'm getting
enough protein to recover from from
weight training workouts and I'm getting
lots of fuel from the fat that a medium
throughout the day so that to me has
been so far the best kind of maintenance
program to be on when I'm having to
think a lot about what I'm eating like
this requires no thought I can pretty
much be traveling go anywhere and get
burgers with bacon avocado and cheddar
and just not eat the bun and not eat the
bun soon we'll have no better buns in
restaurants I hope so I'll be able to
get on how better bun on it but yeah to
avoid carbs wherever happened to be
there would be no bun now I can you
define the difference what's the
difference between a keto diet and a
high fat low carb diet I was just about
to literally go into that so if I wanted
to suddenly turn this into a ketogenic
diet I would start to take blood
readings on a regular basis to see if
I'm in ketosis and in terms of what I
would change in the diet I would lower
the protein pretty significantly and
that actually would do it lowering the
protein usually kicks me right in and if
I wanted to be in kind of like a lean
keto type of a diet where I'm not adding
a lot of body fat
I would keep my calories in check with
the amount of fat that I consume I was
gonna ask you because for me to get into
ketosis I have to calorically restrict
so even if I'm unless I go like no even
then even if I were four to one I had
calorically restrict again
I was surprised now it was a very first
time I did it so maybe be a little bit
easier now mm-hmm but I tighten my
calories a lot if I want to read that
the first time for anybody especially if
you were transitioning from never having
gone off glucose to suddenly being in
ketosis might be harder for me when I
competed as a bodybuilder in my early
20s without realizing it I was getting
into a ketogenic state while
bodybuilding mm-hmm just because your
calories are so low
no because pre-contest for me meant
lesson 20 grams of carbs per day added
fat so I would add fat not thinking I
was going to get into a ketogenic state
but just because that's where I would
make up my calories and protein and the
workouts were so grueling and so intense
that I was burning through enough
whatever glucose my body was creating
from the protein that I would get into a
ketogenic state that's not the best way
to do it though the best way to do it is
to get your protein down to where you
needed to so anyway I having gone in and
out of ketosis I think a few times over
the years made it easier for me once I
wanted to start doing with on a more
regular basis right now it makes a lot
of sense alright so we have another
question from the community this one is
from Yannick Ethier hey guys just tuned
in don't know if you covered this
already but how do you measure your
levels of ketones at home what what are
non-expensive tools to do that where can
I find them mmm so you have any what do
you do so a long time ago I used to use
the ketone sticks that you urine strip
the urine strips those are not I
literally just broke through and I play
this is amazing that's when you know
you're hungry
Akito power that's amazing those
actually only measure one type of ketone
body and once you start producing that
one you start producing a different type
of ketone body that the urine sticks
don't don't measure and so you might
think you're no longer in ketosis when
in fact you are in deeper ketosis so
truly the best way to measure is blood
readings and I use a precision extra
meter actually left it in the car I
could've shown you guys and there is no
like super
cheap way yet the ketone strips
themselves are pretty pricey although
I'm starting to see a few different
companies launch blood readers not just
a precision extra ones and what about
the strip so that's where you realize
and they're doing some kind of deals on
strips so it's worth kind of poking on
and looking looking around out there but
for me I used to precision extra and
yeah the strip's are not cheap the
ketone ones the blood-glucose monster
pretty cheap
yeah the glucose ones are nice and
inexpensive but if you're gonna be going
into measured ketosis unfortunately
right now your only option is to measure
infrequently so what I encourage people
to do if budget really is a concern that
I would get a fasted baseline and so
maybe take your levels right before your
first meal you know once a day for three
or four days get a sense of where that's
at then you can switch and start reading
it mid-day at some point but they're
like four bucks or something three bucks
I think per strips oh and by the way you
don't have to do this to try the
ketogenic diet and get into ketosis it's
only if you want to really precisely
measure the level of ketosis that happen
to be in or if you're doing it for
health reasons and you have to
absolutely be in ketosis but if you just
want to try this at home you don't have
to get a blood reader and start checking
your blood glucose yeah the only thing
I'll say to that is I remember we used
to joke a quest that we're gonna make
t-shirts that said keto you're doing it
wrong I know because people don't
realize it's a game of subtraction
Kito's more about what you don't eat
than it is about what you do eat and I
don't think people realize that you have
to subtract the protein right so it's
not just the carbs if to subtract
protein so I would say especially if
you're for the first time if you're
trying it you really should measure your
blood to know whether you're in ketosis
or not all right we have another fan
question this one is from Cory Weber
Ling so basically the benefit is that
your body burns fat for energy instead
of sugar I'll say glucose because you
can through a process called
gluconeogenesis you can actually turn
protein into glucose but why is that a
benefit especially if you're skinny is
it okay that I hate them
that if he's asking that because he is
skinny and by skinny I'll say assume he
means lean yes leaned so there is a ton
of benefits and I'm not you know the
medical expert to walk you through all
these I will recommend if you wanted to
go really deep into this there's a great
new book right now called the ketogenic
Bible written by two guys that I
considered it the two of the thought
leaders in the whole kit I haven't heard
about it yet oh god I got to get your
copy so you know Jacob Wilson mhm and
Ryan Lowry dude they just you gotta get
on the show so they've published the
ketogenic Bible it is thoroughly
researched it's got chapters on that's
amazing what it is why it works a whole
couple of few chapters that go deep into
all the different health conditions that
can be alleviated through the ketogenic
diet and these are like super well
referenced articles and chapters on him
that is incredible so Jacob Wilson was
gonna come today oh I invited him to be
on how about that and but because he's
obviously based in Tampa and wasn't
gonna be in LA he couldn't but we're
definitely gonna be doing something so
look them up I think they're just at
muscle PhD there's no uninsured right
no underscore right I think you're right
so almost certain it's at muscle PhD
check them out - really really cool guys
from small and then just second doing
amazing research in all areas of muscle
development fat loss like really really
fascinating stuff their Instagram
account is really cool because it's got
a ton of infographics that answer
age-old questions that we've all been
wondering about how particular muscle
works or functions or I don't know
whether or not cinnamon actually reduces
insulin response when you put it on the
food like they've tested all this stuff
and then they're publishing it and then
sharing the results on on their various
social channels but the ketogenic Bible
which they wrote is I'm referring to it
almost every single day and learning
something new every day I was in fact
just reading yesterday about how they're
now referring to Alzheimer's as type 3
diabetes which I've been talking about
yes and I was curious about how exactly
does that work what's the mechanism by
which the ketogenic diet can actually
help alleviate that they go deep into it
I mean it has
providing the brain with more fuel than
its able to get through glucose you can
actually get into a condition where you
have all it's available glucose for your
brain but your brain can't access it
because of the different things that are
going on in there and so suddenly
providing this alternate source of fuel
in the form of ketones alleviates that
Wow so to answer the question there's
the less to do with body composition and
a lot more to do with health benefits
across the board yeah amazing all right
so a fan question from Brian rock camp
what are the main misconceptions and
stereotypes of ketogenic s-- you want to
take that one there sir let's say the
main misconception is that it's if you
just eat a bunch of fat you're doing a
ketogenic diet that's like I talked to a
lot of people who say yeah I'm doing
keto and I asked them to tell me about
it and I'm like okay really doing keto
and you're probably not in ketosis
you're doing more of like a low-carb
high-fat diet which is what I normally
do so that would be the biggest
misconception there's another one out
there too there's something called
ketoacidosis which is a condition that
the diabetics can get themselves into
when they have really high ketone and
glucose levels at extremely high levels
when you're on a ketogenic diet you
don't have both of those levels high
ketones go high and glucose is lowered
and so that would be another one of the
misconceptions and often doctors bring
that up if they're not yet first on what
the difference is right because what
they learned in medical school is when
they hear the word keto they're thinking
ketoacidosis which is incredibly
dangerous for a diabetic so another one
that I'll add to that is that fat makes
you fat
so that was certainly my belief right
that if you're eating it makes so much
sense like I wish that were true because
then at least it would be logical I love
that so I'm glad it's not true well
here's here's my my take if they had
called it anything else
agreed like zorgons great then there
wouldn't be this immediate association
fat fat when people think of fat you are
fat it's so bad yes and people so don't
want that
lip that let's refer to his lipids like
if I released food product and it was
called HIV like that's just a bad name
it's a bad naming convention thing's
gonna sell right not gonna do well even
if it were amazing for you you just
can't call it that so that's how I feel
about fat got a bum rap because of the
name people are convinced that it makes
you fat it does not also and now we're
getting into controversial territory so
I will reiterate than I am NOT a doctor
nor am i research scientist but I like
to play one on YouTube and I will tell
you that it does not clog your arteries
so eating a high-fat diet you need to
ask the question are they damaged fats
or not so damaged fats are very
dangerous but undamaged fats are very
very good for you
all right we have another question this
time from Daniel bro I wonder if it's
pronounced bro or broth either way I'm
gonna go with bro Aikido is meant to be
great for epilepsy can you explain why
this is problem I love this yeah that's
interesting the ketogenic diet died
I believe originated with research for
the autopsy community epilepsy community
actually knows it what's up so you're
right
but I don't know the mechanisms by which
it helps other than there's a ton of
great data on studies that have been
done and are ongoing in this area and it
does seem to work mm-hmm
have you ever looked into the I should
take a giant full bite I know right like
oh God answer a little bit longer
I'm sadly not prepared knowledge wise to
say why it works but there's what they
call the magic third so one-third of all
of the people that don't respond to
drugs or to brain surgery immediately
respond to a ketogenic diet like I'm
talking within 24 to 48 hours and have
an immediate reversal of epileptic
symptoms and though the one story that I
know which gave birth to the Charlie
Foundation was the director of the movie
airplane a guy named Jim Abraham's who's
actually one of the first guests of
inside quest which
I put on my list of people to thank
today because they were ones that really
helped right no no viewers whatsoever
and we still had some pretty amazing
people agree to come on the show so Jim
Abrams thank you so much the Charlie
foundation go look it up what they're
doing to spread the word about the
ketogenic diet and its impact on health
at the highest level they started purely
teaching people about epilepsy and its
impact on that and now they've gone into
cancer and the potential benefits there
and I won't be surprised if they start
talking about Alzheimer's and diabetes
type three so his son had up to 100
grand mal seizures a day and this is
back in the 70s nobody told him about
the ketogenic diet he stumbled upon it
by accident in the library reading about
something that just happened to come
after Kay um for whatever reason he read
it and was like wait a second if people
respond to this why have the doctors
told me goes the doctor why I mean he
told me about this and the doctor said
cuz nobody can stick to the diet and he
said essentially [__] like don't
make that assumption for me tell me and
let me decide puts a son on the diet
within 48 hours he stops having seizures
and I mean this is whatever 30 or 40
years later and his son has not had
another seizure and then going back to
how to actually make that a reality and
how people have compliance putting
somebody on the diet means giving up
some things right like we just talked
about you're gonna give up carbs not
easy and you're gonna have to reduce the
amount of protein that you consume
easier but also not fun so as a food guy
though does that make you feel a bit
superhero II that you're making this
stuff so that they can really get it it
gives me purpose so you know before even
thinking about the notion of can we
actually end metabolic disease can we
have an impact on any of this I was very
much focused on my career focus on my
own personal goals of fitness and
nutrition but never connecting those two
you never really think you know what I
have a passion for I can put a lot of
effort behind and have an impact on a
grand scale so it's a big problem and
there's a solution I think so yeah but
it feels empowering this is something
that I think a lot about so
it's important for me to remind myself
it's important for me to remind the team
and it's definitely important for me to
remind all of you at home that this
company's mission is to pull people out
of the matrix it isn't to make movies TV
shows comic books books it is to pull
people out of the matrix now the vehicle
we use to do that is content of all
types both this social content and
traditional narrative content but health
and we just had a meeting about this is
gonna be a bigger and bigger part of
what we do because the more I try to
solve my wife's problem the more I
realize how inextricably connected the
brain is and the brain is my medium
right it's my canvas that is what I
paint with so anything that influences
that is going to be a necessary part of
pulling people out of the matrix so
we're gonna be doing more and more stuff
around health because at the end of the
day this is this is just so critical to
that end know such a confusing topic for
for most people out there even for for
those of us who are in it and constantly
trying to learn as much as we can so I
love that you were doing that I think
it'll help a lot of people you need to
bring more awareness around some of the
basics agreed and when I was at Quest on
a day-to-day basis it really did make me
feel superhero II like that's like I
remember thinking okay I can get up and
fight every day really hard because I'm
really thinking about that I'm thinking
about the world where people now
actually have access to food that they
want to eat that they eat based on taste
and it happens to be good for them
because I hope you I hope you feel as
good about bringing a waffle that people
can eat that's healthy as I do about
bringing the bars and the chips and I'll
like it actually makes me feel good I
can feel like I'm doing something
positive like forget that it obviously
has changed my life from a financial
perspective that isn't the thing that
like resonates as much like the thing
that really resonates for me is I feel
good about it
100% driving here this morning I had a
a call from ex-wife reminding me to
place another order of waffles because
both my daughters have just ripped
through them right so up until that
there were eating normal waffles for
breakfast and a metabolic disaster it's
all the wrong things grains high
glycemic sugars and carbs and all that
so there are morning at school now it's
going to be completely different from
what it was before they have a better
feel in their system than they had
before so that's like at-home personal
but then I get an almost daily basis
letters from people who some of you just
got on a ketogenic diet and they know
about me through my Instagram account
and their keto underscore head I'm just
go ahead or they've stumbled into no
foods products in they're not using them
and I'm talking about people who have
kids with continuous glucose monitors to
check their blood glucose 24/7 and I've
seen so many where before it's just a
roller coaster ride throughout the day
of glucose response and with that comes
all of the things you know like energy
drops and mood swings and all that too
after you know switching and finding a
way to get carbs reduced in their diet
with these products just a steady state
of glucose it's a dramatic difference so
it feels amazing and yes there's those
days when everything goes wrong or
things aren't going according to plan or
there's frustrations it's very easy to
remind myself like what we're doing is
pretty cool and it feels good alright
we've got another question from our boy
Brian rock camp welcome back my friend
is a ketogenic diet all or nothing for
example I am following about 85% and 85%
diet can one do the same with ketogenic
s'
how much of what an 80% diet means
meaning staying compliant 85% of the
time that's how I took that okay so yes
while you're attempting to be in ketosis
it's all or nothing because the minute
you provide that alternative fuel source
of glucose whether it comes in the form
of too much protein which your body will
convert to glucose or just straight-up
carbs themselves you'll immediately be
bumped off ketosis and you won't be in
ketosis
anymore that said there's different ways
to apply the ketogenic diet to your day
to your to your life so you know one way
is keto all the time and there's lots of
people doing that and they're living
great and having tremendous benefits out
of that another way cyclical keto kind
of like what you're not have been doing
which is you know you know you kind of
get in and out of ketosis perhaps during
the week but I've even read some some
things in fact by Ryan Lowry on targeted
keto what you can actually be ketogenic
part of the day actually hit ketosis
part of the day and then be honest or so
and still gain benefits out of that so
it really depends on how deep you want
to go into it and what your goals are so
in fact that's the first question what
it what am I trying to accomplish if the
goal is I want to lose body fat you can
do that through the ketogenic diet but
there's other ways of doing that that
are more effective that are not the
ketogenic diet or similar to the
ketogenic diet if your goals are that
you want to gain all these wonderful
benefits from the ketogenic diet like
the appetite suppression part which we
really didn't touch on much at all along
with that whole mental clarity that
comes along with it that everyone talks
about and then some of the health
benefits that we that we've talked about
the cancer prevention and so on and so
forth then yeah so that's the goal then
it's all or nothing yeah and by all or
nothing he means you can check your
blood and you'll see so yeah the all
means that it's putting you in a state
you have point five million moles or
higher in your blood stream that's it
it's really that simple that's what I
love about ketosis there's just no
guesswork as long as you're able to read
your blood so yeah alright we have our
giveaway winner is the question was what
does MCT stand for and the winner is
Daniel bro and it is pronounced bro
nice Daniel bro in the house pick it up
pick it up nice name there it is play it
son all right hey I have this is damn
bro Fitness
see got all fancy with the Daniel
because normally his account is actually
just BR oh oh so alright well Dan bro
Jesus we go way back so that was nice
and easy speaking of the ketogenic diet
what we're gonna tell me but what MCT
sands gonna say I just had that's what I
had today as part of my has a supplement
I had it in my coffee so it helps me
tremendously to if I want to just kind
of fast or do intermittent fasting mmm I
will often incorporate MCT into my
coffee and it stands for medium chain
triglycerides there it is medium chain
triglycerides get up on it alright so
that much to my dismay brings us to the
end of this segment
oh but Yemeni man thank you so much for
coming and I don't I don't know if we're
still on me but I will tell you this
right now this man is an amazing human
being go follow him at at keto
underscore head on instagram a it's just
a beautiful account that will focus on
the food and the lifestyle and all of
that but he's a good dude and so you'll
see glimpses of what I think
entrepreneurs should be in this modern
age which is somebody that the more you
get to know about them the more you like
them the more you want to support the
company and the more you understand
their reasons behind building what
they're building I've always said
there's no way for quest to make every
food product out there so I always
wanted to see other companies rise up
and have a mission and be true to that
have integrity to what the metabolic
impact is of the people eating their
foods and no better foods is right there
I was super honored a that you asked me
if you thought it was a good move and I
think that it is I think any food
company with you as the president is
just gonna crush because you make the
right decisions not only for what
monetizes and it's gonna do well but
what is really valuable for the end
consumer over the long run and that is
my pitch to all of you guys as you know
one of the pillars of what we do is try
to influence entrepreneurs and when I
see other entrepreneurs that are just
really really doing it the right way I
want to celebrate that and I want to
make sure that people know about you and
what you're doing so yemeni mesa
everybody yeah many thank you and i'll
take a minute to thank you Tom for
having me
this is so cool I've been watching you
do it from the very beginning on inside
course all the way up until now so to be
sitting here with you and getting to
chat with you like this is super cool a
little surreal but but glad to be here
and you're doing an awesome job I get
lots of people reach out to me saying
I've discovered impact theory and
somehow the know that were connected or
you know they've tracked me down in the
gym like that one time that I went into
that one person so you really truly are
having an impact on a lot of people so
awesome thank you keep it up thank you
for sure
you